---
title: Anointing
description: "Every believer is a priest in the new covenant"
---

### 2. Anointing: Every believer is a priest in the new covenant.
(see diagrams above) 
Not offices nor titles: The shapes in the body are the different roles - not offices, nor titles - apostolic role, pastoral role, prophetic role, teaching role, evangelist role. A person from the congregation assumes a role according to his or her gifting, to perform its function for a brief period.
"A chosen people, a royal priesthood" (1 Peter 2:9). "…has made us to be a kingdom and priests to serve his God and Father" (Revelation 1:6). "you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ" (1 Peter 2:5) There is no hierarchy mentioned in the New Testament, except that the original apostles sorted out doctrine, and the elders governed in their local churches. “So Christ himself gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the pastors and teachers, to equip his people for works of service, so that the body of Christ may be built up” (Ephesians 4:11). The office of elder, deacon, pastor, bishop, evangelist, apostle, teacher seem to have been roles of service and shepherding rather than a seat in a hierarchy. In other words, the new covenant church was remarkably flat in organization. This is because every believer has the Holy Spirit. I John 2:20,27 speaks of every believer having the anointing. I was struck by the fact that in Acts, unlike in the Old Testament, the term anointed was not used of a specific individual(s), but rather phrases like "the Holy Spirit said, 'set apart for me...'  " when Saul and Barnabas were chosen in Acts 13:2. Only giftings are spoken of, not anointing of particular individuals. There was also no automatic dynastic succession. The temple is not the church building, but our own bodies ("know ye not that your bodies are the temple of God"). Together we form the body of Christ. Throughout the New Testament, service to the body - to each other is commended. Buildings are never even mentioned except as a location. The goal is not leadership, but service, preaching the gospel and changed lives through discipling and the power of God. See also FAQ below on Romans 12:4-8.
###### Taking hold of the power of the Holy Spirit. Laying of hands and praying.
Every believer should be encouraged to take hold of the power of the Holy Spirit - by being able to lay hands on, and pray for divine healing or breakthrough for a suffering person. ( In many churches, only the senior pastor lays hands and prays).